# 4. Publishing the copyrighted works of the Company as an open source

## 4.1. Publishing in accordance with the OSS license

### 4.1.1. Publishing the OSS owned by the Company

#### 4.1.1.1. Publishing the new OSS owned by the Company
The Employees shall publish the OSS owned by the Company in accordance with the following provisions.

1. The Employees shall publish the OSS only in the source code management system, where the Company has permitted the Employees to publish the OSS.  
(The details of the above-mentioned source code management system shall be set forth separately in the guidelines.)
2. In the above-mentioned repositories, the Employees must promptly deploy the files relating to copyrights, OSS licenses, disclaimers, etc.  
(The contents of the files to be deployed shall be subject to the provisions of the guidelines separately prescribed.)

#### 4.1.1.2. Publishing the contents of the existing private repository
The Employees shall publish the contents of the existing private repository in accordance with the following provisions.

1. The Employees must file an application to the OSPO and obtain its approval.  
(The procedure for such approval shall be set forth separately in the guidelines.)
2. Prior to filing an application, the Employees must deploy the files relating to copyrights, OSS licenses, disclaimers, etc. in the repository.
3. After obtaining the approval, the Employees shall transfer the repository to the source code management system, where the Company has permitted the Employees to publish the OSS, and publish the repository as the OSS owned by the Company.

### 4.1.2. Managing the OSS owned by the Company

#### 4.1.2.1. Changing the license of the OSS owned by the Company
If it is deemed necessary to change the license of the OSS owned by the Company, the Employees may change such license to the extent necessary in accordance with the following provisions.  
(As for changing the OSS license, the Employees shall pay attention to external communication such as consideration for contributors because of the reputation risk associated with such change.)

1. The Employees must file an application for changing the OSS license to the OSPO and obtain its approval.  
(The Employees must file an application in which the changed OSS license and the reason for the license change are clearly specified.)
2. After obtaining the approval, the Employees shall update the OSS license file.

#### 4.1.2.2. Moving the OSS repository owned by the Company
In the case of moving the OSS repository owned by the Company, the Employees can move such repository at their own discretion only within the source code management system, where the Company has permitted the Employees to publish the OSS.  
(As for moving the OSS repository, the Employees shall pay attention to external communication such as providing the proper instructions for the new repository location.)

#### 4.1.2.3. Stopping publishing (deleting or closing) the OSS owned by the Company
The Employees shall stop publishing the OSS owned by the Company in accordance with the following provisions.  
(As for stopping publishing the OSS, the Employees shall pay attention to external communication because of the reputation risk, same as changing the OSS license.)

1. The Employees must file an application to the OSPO and obtain its approval.  
(The Employees must file an application in which the reason for stopping publishing the OSS owned by the Company is clearly specified.)
2. After obtaining the approval, the Employees shall stop publishing such OSS repository.

## 4.2. Providing copyrighted works for other OSS

### 4.2.1. Conditions for publishing differentials as the OSS
In the event that the Employees of the Company modify the source code and publish it for the purpose of adding new functions to or fixing bugs in the OSS on which others have the copyright, the Employees must publish the source code in accordance with the following provisions.

1. The Employees shall apply the same license as the original OSS, except as set forth in the following provision “2 Signing the Contributor License Agreement”.
2. The Employees shall not use the trademarks of the Company, except for the reference to differentials.
3. The Employees shall not permit enforcing patents of the Company, except for patents utilized in differentials.
4. The Employees shall publish such OSS using the e-mail address of the domain owned by the Company.

### 4.2.2. Signing the Contributor License Agreement
If you are required to sign and agree to the Contributor License Agreement (the “CLA”), the Employees may sign and agree, on behalf of the Company, to the CLA as set forth in the “list of the CLA which can be signed” separately prescribed. Regarding the CLA which is not in the “list of the CLA which can be signed”, the preceding sentence shall apply if the following conditions are satisfied.

1. The Employees shall not use the trademarks of the Company, except for the reference to differentials.
2. The Employees shall not permit enforcing patents of the Company, except for patents utilized in differentials.
3. In addition to the above paragraphs, the Company and the Employees who sign the CLA have no liability other than those related to the joint ownership of the source code copyright with the other party of the CLA.

### 4.2.3. Transfer of copyright
In the event that the Employees of the Company modify the source code for the purpose of adding new functions to or fixing bugs in the OSS on which others have the copyright, the Employees shall be allowed to conduct the procedure on behalf of the Company and transfer the copyright of such source code to such organizations as set forth in the “the list of organizations to which copyright is transferred” separately prescribed.

### 4.2.4. Others
As for publishing the OSS, signing and agreeing to the CLA, and the procedure of transferring the copyright, not prescribed in the preceding paragraph, the Employees shall file such application to the OSPO and shall follow the OSPO’s instructions.